# Accessibility testing

Our cypress tests have a11y checks
(via [axe-core](https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-core))
built into them which log issues across each page of service-front as they
are encountered. This is done via a custom function, `cy.OPGCheckA11y()`, which
logs violations to the console. However, at the time of writing (2021-02-12), we
do not fail a cypress test run if there are accessibility violations, as many of
those violations noted need human intervention to assess them fully.

Instead, we run subsets of the axe tests to look for particular issues,
targeting them at the pages where we are attempting to fix those issues. In
this situation, we *do* fail the cypress test run if a violation occurs when
confident that there are no violations requiring human assessment.

For example, `Homepage.feature` contains tests of colour contrast on elements.
This is implemented by adding a step to the feature:

```elements on the page should have sufficient contrast```

Then, an implementation of the step is provided in `a11y.js`. The implementation
looks like this:

```
Then('elements on the page should have sufficient contrast', () => {
    cy.injectAxe2();

    cy.checkA11y(null, {
        runOnly: {
            type: 'tag',
            values: ['cat.color']
        }
    });
});
```

We use a custom command `cy.injectAxe2()` (defined in `cypress/support/commands.js`)
to inject axe-core into the page.

We then call the cypress-axe command `cy.checkA11y()` to check for accessibility
issues on the page.

* The first `null` passed to the command specifies the context
for the check; in this case, `null` tells axe to check the whole page.
* The hash passed as the second argument specifies a subset of axe checks to run.
In this case, we are specifying only tests with the `cat.color` tag; this
includes the colour contrast tests. Note that, as we are not passing our own
custom handler to `cy.checkA11y()`, violations will cause test runs to fail.

See [the axe-core API docs](https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-core/blob/develop/doc/API.md)
for more information. In particular, see the
[section about available axe tags](https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-core/blob/develop/doc/API.md#axe-core-tags).

If further targeted accessibility requests are required, they can be implemented
using a custom step, as is done here, and can fail the test run (if we're
confident the failure is not simply because a violation needs additional
human intervention).
